Update readmes and fix out of date things found along the way (#2870)
bbc/simorgh: README.md

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bbc/simorgh.svg?branch=latest)](https://travis-ci.org/bbc/simorgh) [![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/cbca275e184057982f27/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/bbc/simorgh/test_coverage) [![Known Vulnerabilities](https://snyk.io/test/github/bbc/simorgh/badge.svg)](https://snyk.io/test/github/bbc/simorgh) [![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/cbca275e184057982f27/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/bbc/simorgh/maintainability) [![Storybook](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/storybooks/brand@master/badge/badge-storybook.svg)](https://bbc.github.io/simorgh/)

> The BBC websites are being rebuilt from the bottom up as ReactJS based Single Page Applications, that will (eventually) also be fully fledged Progressive Web Apps. This application also builds Accelerated Mobile Pages for every regular HTML page that it renders.

Reviewer: Should this be specific to worldservice? and not the rest of the BBC?

Author: Deliberately was talking about all of DPG without naming DPG because no one will know what it is

Simorgh will be used across the BBC World Service News websites ([some are already live](https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/wiki/Simorgh-Pages)), with tens of millions of users, and growing very fast.

We lean heavily on the component library called [Psammead](https://github.com/bbc/psammead/) that we also maintain. This library is also open source and used even more widely across the BBC.

## Documentation index
Please familiarise yourself with our:
- [Code of conduct](https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/blob/latest/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [Code Standards](https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/blob/latest/docs/Code-Standards.md)
- [Contributing guidelines](https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/blob/latest/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Github Project Board Guide](https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/blob/latest/docs/Project-Board-Guide.md)
- [Primary README](https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/blob/latest/README.md) (you are here)

> ## Simorgh Overview

Reviewer 2: I appreciate having the Simorgh overview in one place rather than spread across several markdown files. However, I don't believe the main readme is the best place for this. If you look at most successful open source projects, their initial readme is very succinct, and just points you to the relevant getting-started page or background-to-the-application page.

I believe Simorgh could greatly benefit from this same change.

Author: So moving all the local dev and simorgh overview to another doc? Or something else?

Reviewer 2: Yes, `Simorgh-Overview.md` for the overview and local dev setup to a `Getting-Started.md`. Or you could have a single markdown file with these as two headings.

Author: I mostly agree for style of readability (my hesitation is on maintainability), but you're actually already suggesting some duplication - which I think shows the fewer files the more maintainable the docs are. Specifically we have getting started at the top of contributing.md already.

I suggest we merge this PR as a major change (which has many corrections) then can revisit pulling things out of the primary readme, adding them to the documentation index and being clear on the point of each file. At the moment this primary readme is a catchall.

IMO the primary readme would ideally have all the overview info and link clearly to a single contributing/getting-started file. That way it's clear to a reader and writer which things go where. Elsewise it's always a judgment call.

Reviewer 2: Agreed that the changes made here are sufficient for this set of changes and that we can reassess in future to make the files more readable for new contributors to the repo.

### A High Level User Journey

#### The initial page load - Server Side Render (SSR)

> A request to a BBC article (https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/clldg965yzjo) is passed on to the Simorgh application from Mozart.

Reviewer: we should either say what `Mozart` is or just remove the mention of Mozart from the docs.

Author: Done

> The request matches a route in our express server using a regex match (`articleRegexPath` || `frontPageRegexPath`). If the URL matches the pre-defined regex pattern for an article or a front page we fetch some params from the route using the `getRouteProps` function. This returns the service, isAmp, route and match. Route is a react-router route that defines a method to fetch the initial JSON used to render the page and the react container in which to render i.e. `ArticleContainer`, this is typically called `getInitialData`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request matches a route in our express server using a regex match (`articleRegexPath` || `frontPageRegexPath`). If the URL matches the pre-defined regex pattern for an article or a front page we fetch some params from the route using the `getRouteProps` function. This returns the service, isAmp, route and match properties. Route is a react-router route that defines a method to fetch the initial JSON used to render the page and the react container in which to render i.e. `ArticleContainer`, this is typically called `getInitialData`
```

Once data is returned we pull the status code and pass all of this data as props to our main document using `renderDocument`.

The Document passes the URL, JSON data, BBC Origin, isAmp and the service to the main App container and the result is rendered to a string using reacts own `renderToString` method. This string is then passed to DocumentComponent as the main app along with the assets array, style tags (the output from styled components) and any scripts/links that need to be added to the head. This is then rendered to static HTML markup using reacts own `renderToStaticMarkup` and sent back to the user as static HTML. Included in this response are links to our JS bundles which a users device will download to bootstrap the single page application (SPA) for subsequent journeys.

> Now that the raw HTML has been downloaded, the client-side JS file kicks in and hydrates the initial response with the client side application. During this process react uses the initial JSON payload (available on the global window object `SIMORGH_DATA`) to hydrate the original markup returned by ReactDOMServer. React expects that the rendered content is identical between the server and the client (This is why we send the initial JSON payload with the SSR page, so the hydration phase runs with the same data that the server render used).

Reviewer: Maybe append to this last paragraph that the use of the hydrate method and the SIMORGH_DATA object should result in no visual change to the user?

Author: I'm happy yo add this, can you add this in the form of a suggested change for me to accept please. It'll then be quicker to agree the copy

#### Onward Journeys - Client Side Render (CSR)

> Now that the SPA is bootstrapped on the users device, onward journeys to further Simorgh pages are captured by react-router and rendered on entirely on the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the SPA is bootstrapped on the users device, onward journeys to further Simorgh pages are captured by react-router and rendered entirely on the client.
```

Clicking on an onward journey triggers the `useEffect` hook in the main App container as the URL path has changed. This effect uses `getRouteProps` again to match the new path against a react-router route, gaining access to the; service and isAmp props, the react container to render and the `getInitialData` function.

> The local state is now updated setting `loading` to `true` and `data` to `null`. This update to state triggers the App container to re-render passing the state values as props to the main container, in this case either ArticlesContainer or FrontPageContainer. These containers compose a set of higher order components (HOC) and each one handles the values from a given props. Currently the loading prop is set to `true` so the `withLoading` HOC will return the loading component showing a visual loading state to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The local state is now updated, setting `loading` to `true` and `data` to `null`. This update to state triggers the App container to re-render passing the state values as props to the main container, in this case either ArticlesContainer or FrontPageContainer. These containers compose a set of higher order components (HOC) and each one handles the values from a given props. Currently the loading prop is set to `true` so the `withLoading` HOC will return the loading component showing a visual loading state to the user.
```

Reviewer: These commit suggestions aren't easy to see the changes. This one just added a comma.

During this time the App container has finished fetching the JSON payload for the onward journey and the state is updated again. Loading is now set to false and data is set to the returned JSON data.

> The routes container is rendered again, this time loading is set to false so the `withData` HOC can run some validation against the JSON payload then return either an error components of the original page container e.g. ArticleContainer passing in the JSON data with the pageData prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The routes container is rendered again, this time loading is set to false so the `withData` HOC can run some validation against the JSON payload and return either an error component or the original page container e.g. ArticleContainer passing in the JSON data with the pageData prop.
```

The ArticleMain container will iterate over each JSON block, match it against its corresponding react container and pass the data via props. These containers are where the logic for rendering each block type sits. It is at this point where we use the installed frontend components from the Psammead component library. For example the Image container will import the Figure container, and Figure will import and use the psammead-image and the psammead-image-placeholder components. An image on an article will generally have a caption, so the Figure container will import the caption container which may include more frontend components from Psammead to render a caption on top of the image.

This process is repeated for each block within an article, ultimately rendering the main body of a news article using a combination of React containers for the business logic and React components for the frontend markup.

### A Page Render Lifecycle

> Each render is passed through a set of HOC's to enhance the page, these HOC's are;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each render is passed through a set of HOC's (Higher Order Components) to enhance the page, these HOC's are;
```

- [http://localhost.bbc.com:7080/news/articles/c6v11qzyv8po.amp](http://localhost.bbc.com:7080/news/articles/c6v11qzyv8po.amp)
- [http://localhost.bbc.com:7080/persian/articles/c4vlle3q337o.amp](http://localhost.bbc.com:7080/persian/articles/c4vlle3q337o.amp).

### Front pages

> World Service front pages are served in the format `/:service` where `service` represents a World Service site:

Reviewer: We could link to the languages page here https://www.bbc.com/ws/languages to show how languages we will be working with?

Author: Above in same file I've linked to https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/wiki/Simorgh-Pages to show progress, I think until we've done a lot of the services it's clearer to link to this link than that one as it would most likely lead people to a page produced by a different application.
